Subject: General Application Advice...

Hi all,

Here are some general med school applications advice. Hopefully they can help!:


1.  With sufficient extracurricular activities, would I still be competitive with a low GPA from my 1st and 2nd years?

Yes of course! Given the schools you are applying for and given that you obtain high GPAs in your final years, this is doable. For certain schools, you automatically pass the first round of application as long as you meet the minimum GPA requirement. How your marks are looked at beyond that initial round is unknown, so a higher mark would still give you an advantage. 

Keep in mind that GPA isn't everything. When I applied to the University of Alberta and British Columbia, applicants who aren't given an interview get feedback on their applications. For me, my GPA and MCAT were way above average but my extracurriculars were way below. Also keep in mind that many med school students are mature students who don't have the best undergrad GPAs but have tons of real life experience. Off the top of my head, I know a few mature students who were plumbers, worked in health care policy, or arts & humanities. 

--------------------------------------------------------------

2. Does adding a minor benefit my application in comparison to shadowing, observing and other extracurriculars? 
 
In my personal opinion, extracurriculars trump a minor. In fact, your minor doesn't even show up on your graduation diploma! (At least for my university). Application wise, there's not much you can talk about with a minor. It only goes on your transcript. With extracurriculars, you add it to the Abbreviated Biographical Sketch, you can mark it down as 1 of your 3 most important extracurriculars to write a paragraph about, and you can talk about it in the personal statement, as well as secondary essays.

In fact, the interview at Western (my school) is closed book. Which means they don't have access to your GPA or MCAT and they just want to get to know YOU as a person. The way you can demonstrate your personality and virtues is through stories/events that happen during these extracurriculars. Extracurriculars are a lot more impactful on your personal growth than a minor.

--------------------------------------------------------------

3. I plan to complete a Global Health or Public Health Masters (1 year program). Do you think that this would be a successful route to take?

Yes! A one year program would be a great idea for a gap year. I personally didn't get in on my first cycle and took Computer Science as a Post-Bacc for 1 year. A Public Health/ Global Health Masters is perfect because you'll get exposure to health care policies, hospital management, and etc.

Keep in mind its not what title you obtain but what you learn. Get involved during this masters. Write posters, research papers, go to conferences, take on group work projects. Use this to buff up your applications. For example, I know of a collegue who did his masters in Health Care Policy and worked for 4 years at Cancer Care Ontario as well as other health organizations. Through this, he knew the ins-and-outs of health policy in Ontario and had a very insightful application because he knew what were the major health issues in Ontario. 

Don't worry about the timing! The med school class president at the University of Ottawa went to college for plumbing, worked as a plumber, then decided to do his university undergrad, and THEN applied to med school. Take your time with the MCAT and spend the time necessary to get an amazing score. Someone else in my med school class also has 2 kids in high school! 

--------------------------------------------------------------

4. Would it be essential to describe the reasons for a low GPA in the early years of university? 

It is not essential per se but if you have extenuating circumstances, then do describe it in your application. You have an area for describing any hiccups in GPA on the application. Use it if you have appropriate circumstances to describe!

--------------------------------------------------------------

5. What do I do about the CASPER??

The CASPER is a 90 minute situation-based online test required by some medical schools. You are given a video or a prompt and 5 minutes to type out answers to 3 questions. Grammar and spelling does not count.

Some say you can't study for it because it's based on your personality and conflict resolution methods. Furthermore, no one gets their CASPER scores back so you never know how well you did! With that being said, you can always prepare. There are test-prep companies out there and I have heard good things. Personally, I opted to prepare for it myself. The following are resources I used:

A) https://www.themedicportal.com/e-learning/interview/ethics/
B) http://www.reliableplant.com/Read/16396/steps-to-resolve-workplace-conflicts
C) Great practice questions here: 
	- https://www.psc.nsw.gov.au/employmentportal/ethics-conduct/behaving-ethically/behaving-ethically-guide/section-4/scenario-7-charlie-s-photos
	- https://foxhugh.com/non-fiction/36-workplace-scenarios/

--------------------------------------------------------------

6. Any advice for secondaries/essays/personal statements? 

Make sure it gets read by a wide range of people (friends in arts & humanities, teachers, seniors, etc) because you never know who's on the admissions committee and what biases they might have. Also don't say anything bad about any profession because you don't know who's going to be reading it (don't bad-mouth nurses or social workers)! 

In terms of writing your personal statement, make sure you abstract yourself away from the whole pre-med process and think about who you are as a person and what experiences really made you grow. Maybe it was taking care of your grandpa, your family's farm, or raising your sister. Even if these types of experiences seem insignificant, they have had a big impact on you and thus admissions committee members can probably relate in a personal way and get to know who you are. Stay humble in your statements. 

For writing your essays and personal statements, I recommend TPR's Medical Essays That Made a Difference (buy the ebook). This book compiles real essays (typos included and all!) from students who got into med school. After reading application essays from a large pool, you'll get the perspective of an admissions member and start to see what's memorable and impactful. 

--------------------------------------------------------------

7. Applying to American MD/DO schools as a Canadian applicant?:

I'm fairly certain DO schools require DO shadowing and might ask you to describe those shadowing experiences in essays so be prepared for that! 

American schools are quite tricky to get in as an international/Canadian student. I've never received any interview invites from the schools I've applied to. I'm thinking that essays have a lot to do with it as each school requires a lot of secondary essays. That said, it's not impossible! I've had a CANADIAN student who took the MCAT twice because her first mark wasn't so good. Now she just got accepted to Mayo Clinic (they only take 50 students a year!).


Hope that helps,
Claire