Subject: Tip of the Day – In the Days Before the MCAT

Hello there,

The big day is steadily approaching, so I wanted to touch base with you all about the best way to use the days before the test.  I have hinted that the best plan is to do a full length test every other day, in a previous tip of the day.  I'd like to expand that suggestion a little bit.

In an ideal world, you will have the 2 weeks off before the MCAT (I've tried to stress how important this is and if you haven't booked this time off from work and other responsibilities yet, do so immediately).  If you don't have the entire day off, that is ok; a significant portion of it will do (especially if you have a few classes or other responsibilities that can't be rescheduled).

Let's suppose you are writing the MCAT on July 23; you should be doing full length tests on:
July 21, 19, 17, 15, 13, 11 and 9

Start these tests at the same time your real MCAT will start and run them as realistically as possible (take the breaks, time yourself properly, eat the same food you will be eating on test day, no music, no distractions, etc).  Try to find a place to sit that will mimic the MCAT environment.  Make these as realistic as possible because your goal here is to increase stamina and deal with test stress.

So where do you get these tests?  You have numerous online tests available, both from Princeton Review and AAMC.  It is also usually worthwhile to go back and redo the first few diagnostic exams (unless you remember them really well.  In this case, you could still review them and do key or difficult passages).

On the evenings of these test days, mark the test and go back and analyze it.  Go over passages you did poorly on and questions you got wrong.  Identify content you need to work on or material you need to still memorize.  Use these tests as a learning tool as much as possible.

On the days off, continue normal studying.  Focus on material you still don't know well or content that still doesn't feel comfortable.  Minimize review of material you already know really well.  Use your cue cards or mind maps here.  Study with a friend or classmate (this is important and I highly recommend it).

There is a "the day before the MCAT" future tip of the day, so stay tuned.  This should not be a full length test day, though.

If you cannot get the days before the MCAT off work, you're going to have to modify this ideal plan to something you can manage.  If you would like feedback on how to do this, talk to me during office hours or send me an email.

Thanks and keep up the good work,
Claire