Subject: Farwell and Goodluck!!

Hello all,
 
Test day is approaching and some of you will be going into the MCAT soon.  Since you're all going to be taking the MCAT at different times, I'd like you to read my thoughts below the night before you write the test.
 
In the mean time, while you are studying in the final days, don't forget that I am still a resource for you.  If you need me, send me an email.  It has been great meeting you all and having this chance to work with you.  I'll miss you all!!
 
PS. Fill out your course evaluation if you haven't! 

Thanks and farewell,
Claire 
 
--------------------------------------------------
 
Greetings MCAT Masters,
 
Well, since tomorrow is your big day, I wanted to write you a note to say some final things.  In no particular order...
 
Supplies
Don't forget everything you'll need tomorrow including ID and snacks. Pack it up tonight, not tomorrow morning.
 
Sleep
Get lots of it!  Go to bed early tonight and do not stay up studying.  Think of ways you can relax to ensure you get a good night's sleep.  Wake up early tomorrow, with lots of time to get ready and get there.  Calculate how much travel time you think you'll need and then double it.
 
Food
Eat a good breakfast, and take lots of snack food.  Also, if you're prone to any medical ailments, especially when you're stressed - i.e. stomach ache, diarrhea, headache, etc - be sure to take some medication just in case.  You don't want a headache or something ruining the MCAT for you.
 
Studying
You should all be finished your studying by now.  You know everything you need to.  Stop and relax, and do not study tomorrow morning.
 
Breaks
I've said it before and I'll say it again - be sure that you take the breaks!  Take advantage of the time to stretch, walk around, get restlessness out of your system, de-stress, keep yourself awake, etc.
 
Stress
Keep it in check.  Pay attention to your body.  If you sense yourself getting stressed or loosing focus, do whatever you have decided to de-stress yourself (mini neck massage, close your eyes, deep breathing, clench and then release your hands, pep-talk in your head, etc).  There is no reason for any of you to be stressed tomorrow.  You are more prepared to write this test than you ever have been and ever will be.  So go in there tomorrow knowing you're the most prepared people across the nation and that you know your stuff.  You should all be confident tomorrow and I am confident in each of you.
 
Your Plan
Whatever test-taking plan you have decided on, you need to stick with it tomorrow.  Don't let the MCAT throw you.  Be prepared for surprise material (science passages that present new stuff based on things we did in class) and use your tools - read up read down, POE, look for opposites, watch for tricks, etc.  Whatever your plan is and whatever your timing schedule is - don't deviate from it.  Stick to your time management strategies and you won't run out of time.
 
Celebrate
Go home tomorrow and relax, sleep, eat, celebrate, call whomever (me if no one else) and congratulate yourself on your success.  Remember to email me and tell me how it went!!
 
If you need me over the next few hours, email me.  I am here for you and can't wait for you all to go in there tomorrow and kill the MCAT.  You are all going to make excellent physicians and I can't wait to hear about your successes!  I've enjoyed meeting all of you and working with each of you.
 
GOOD LUCK!
 
Best,
Claire