Subject: Tip of the Day - Reading Skills

Hey everyone,

Today we are focusing on science reading skills. Reading short articles in primary scientific literature is a great study habit.  
 
1. Scientific Articles 
The Nature family of journals (http://www.nature.com) publish MCAT-like articles called "News and Views". These articles are usually a little longer than an average MCAT passage (approx. 1000 words vs. 250-500 words on the MCAT), but are good practice for reading MCAT-style passages. At the bottom (or sometimes the top) of these article, there is usually a "Key Points" section. After you read or skim the article (like you would an MCAT passage), you can check your understanding by predicting the "Key Points", and then see if you're correct. There are several great journals available: Nature, Nature Cell Biology, Nature Genetics, Nature Immunology, Nature Medicine, Nature Neuroscience, Nature Structural and Molecular Biology and several Nature Reviews journals (Nature Reviews Cancer, Cardiology, Clinical Oncology, Drug Discovery, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Genetics, Immunology, Microbiology, Molecular Cell Biology, Nephrology, Neurology, Neuroscience, Rheumatology, Urology).
 
The Science journal (http://www.sciencemag.org) also has good shorter articles: "New of the Week" articles are quite short, while "Perspectives" and "News and Analysis" are a little longer.



2. Research Articles
My best recommendation is to read research articles from PubMed (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed). Revisit this webpage every week and check out the "Trending Articles" section. A few exercises you can practice include: 

		A. Read the (long and boring) methods sections and see if you can match up how each method was used to obtain each result/figure/table. 

		B. Write your own abstract for the article and compare it to the real abstract at the end. Did you summarize the main points?

		C. State 2 scientific research strengths and 2 weaknesses for their experiment. Strengths may be including a positive/negative/technical control or doing both a knockdown and knock-in experiment to double confirm something. A weakness could be that the researchers forgot to consider a confounding factor or could not show how the results can be applicable to human studies. These are just a few example of things you can look for! The process of finding strengths & weaknesses really forces you to understand an experiment 



3. General Articles
There are also a few magazines (available online and in book stores) that are good practice. The shorter summary-style articles in these are good for practicing MCAT-length passages, and the longer ones will help with stamina. Here are some suggestions:
		A. Scientific American: www.sciam.com

		B. Discover: www.discovermagazine.com

		C. The Economist: www.economist.com

		D. Macleans: www.macleans.ca

		E. New Scientist: http://www.newscientist.com

 
All universities have access to these journals (usually both in-print and online), as they are some of the best out there. Check out your online library access and get reading!

Cheers,
Claire
 