Subject: Regurgitation vs. Critical Thinking

Hello there,
 
The MCAT is not a regurgitation exam like you're used to from high school and post-secondary studies.  Instead, the MCAT tests your critical thinking skills (the very skills you need to have as an effective MD).  This is what I mean:
 
There are certain areas of content that you need to KNOW going into the MCAT (everything we do in class and everything in your review books).  Everything else you can forget until after the test. However, me saying "You don't need to know this for the MCAT" is totally different than me saying "You won't see this on the MCAT".  The AAMC can include whatever content they want in passages and the idea is that you take all the background knowledge that you've accumulated in the course and integrate that with the information they present in passages.  In every passage and on every MCAT you will see content that is new - that is the entire reason why the MCAT is a critical thinking exam rather than a regurgitation exam.  You need to combine your background knowledge and the new information and think critically about it in order to answer the questions correctly.  That does not mean you need to understand every word in a passage.  You need to extract information out of the passages, not memorize them or aim to comprehend every concept presented.
 
As you're working through homework passage, you'll notice that content from future or past classes is creeping in.  For example, you might see a passage that is mainly about an antibiotic resistant bacterial strain, but there will be some information in the passage about the disease this prokaryote causes, and what physiological system this disease affects and how.  It would be impossible and pointless to write passages that only contain one area of biology or ochem, since this is not how the actual MCAT will be written.  Each passage will contain a gamut of biology content (as do your homework passages), and it is perfectly understandable that you find these challenging when you're still learning content.  You'll notice the exact same thing in ICCs that we do in class.
 
Many passages will be heavy on detail, especially if they contain some ochem.  The key with passages like this is to extract what you can from the passage and NOT dwell on the detail.  Be selective about the passage and pluck the information out as the questions require you to.
 
You should be spending a lot of time right now both DOING and CHECKING your homework.  This time is not wasted and is one of the most valuable things you can do to perfect critical thinking skills.

Good luck and please let me know if you have any questions,
Claire
