Subject: To Think or To Memorize?

Hello!
 
The test is getting closer.  You're starting to find that you know the science content better and better.  You could draw glucose in your sleep.  You know all 25 human hormones like the back of your hand.  Physics and Gchem formulas are second nature.  You could give me a 30 second crash course on how my immune system helps me.  You know the difference between a chromatid and a chromosome.
 
And yet...
 
You still find yourself scoring an 125.  Or a 123.
 
But not the precious and coveted 127-129 you want to be competitive for most Canadian med schools.
 
So what is going on?!?
 
Here is the deal: The MCAT requires you to have a hugely extensive library of background knowledge in your head.  This includes all the material from your pre-readings and all the content we go over in classes.  If you're scoring 124 or below, it is most likely that you don't know this material well enough.
 
But, in order to score better, and get to the 127s and above, you need to do much more than memorize content.  You need to understand how everything works together.  You need to find connections between different theories and material.  You need to reach a higher cognitive plane.  Luckily you've been working to get here all through the course, as you've been doing passages for homework, but the journey is really just beginning.
 
That is why it is VITAL that you get all the memorization and basic learning out of the way early.  Then you have time to play with the material, think about it, ask yourself (and me) questions about it and try to find a rhyme and reason to the science.  There is method to all this madness that we learn about and high scoring test writers have found these underlying concepts.  The more you practice and think about this material and try to understand it in different and novel ways, the more you are practicing these important critical thinking skills.
 
What I'm basically trying to say here is that memorization is not nearly enough.  Fundamentally, the MCAT is not a content test.  It is a logical and critical thinking test that requires you to have a solid background in science.  Passages will always give you new information and present diseases or reactions or systems that you're never seen before.  The goal is to use your content library and think critically about the passages.  Try to understand them, find the holes and explain them and figure out how these new diseases, reactions or systems are working based on all the background knowledge you know.
 
Keep practicing... You'll get there.  I've seen you improve in leaps and bounds throughout the course.
 
Let me know if you need anything.
Best,
Claire