Subject: Tip of the Day - Protein Trafficking Quiz

Hello there,
 
Today's tip of the day is a  quick little quiz on protein trafficking.  See if you can answer the five questions below and then scroll down to check your answers.  Good luck!
 
1. A protein might have which of the following:
    (a) signal sequence and localization signal
    (b) localization signal and transmembrane domain(s)
    (c) no signal sequence but a targeting signal
    (d) signal sequence and a transmembrane domain
 
2. A localization signal can target proteins to the:
    (a) nucleus or the mitochondria only
    (b) nucleus, the mitochondria or peroxisomes
    (c) mitochondria, SES or RER
    (d) cytoplasm or extracellular matrix
 
3. A targeting signal can send proteins to the:
    (a) cytoplasm
    (b) lysosomes, SES or RER
    (c) mitochondria, nucleus or peroxisomes
    (d) plasma membrane or extracellular matrix
 
4. Hexokinase contains:
    (a) A signal sequence but no targeting signal
    (b) A localization signal only
    (c) No signal sequence or localization signal
    (d) A signal sequence and a targeting signal
 
5. A protein with no trafficking signal whatsoever will end up localized in the:
    (a) nucleus
    (b) extracellular matrix
    (c) cytoplasm
    (d) RER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------
 
REVIEW
Remember that...
 
Localization signals target proteins that were made in the cytoplasm (i.e. no signal sequence) to the nucleus, mitochondria or peroxisomes.  These proteins will not contain signal sequences or targeting signals.
 
A signal sequence moves a protein to the RER (or secretory pathway).  A transmembrane domain can also be enough to target a protein to the RER (i.e. a protein that has transmembrane domain(s) may not need a signal sequence).  Proteins that are translated at the RER will end up secreted outside of the cell, in the plasma membrane, or will contain a targeting signal.
 
A targeting signal targets proteins going through the RER-Golgi network to lysosomes, SER, RER or Golgi.  These proteins must also contain a signal sequence.
 
If a protein contains no trafficking signal whatsoever, it will end up in the cytoplasm.
 
ANSWERS
 
1. D
2. B
3. B
4. C (you should know from Bio1 that hexokinase is a cytoplasmic protein)
5. C
