Subject: Tip of the Day – Twas the Night Before MCAT...

Alrighty, let's talk about your plan of action for the day before the MCAT.  First of all, make sure you have everything you'll be needing the next day.  This includes clean clothing, food, and ID stuff.  Get all these things organized and packed up.
 
Next, make sure you know where you're going on MCAT day and what time you need to be where. Do a practice run of the test centre if you've not already done this: go out and find it and talk to the proctors if you can.  If you're driving, make sure you know where you're going to park.  If you're being dropped off, find a place where this can happen.  If you're taking the subway, what are you going to do if it is down/delayed?  Do you have a few cab company phone numbers in your cell just in case?
 
Do not write a full length test on the day before the MCAT.
 
You should use this day for light studying only.  Go over your cue cards, read your notes, do some practice if you'd like to (but I would not recommend doing full sections) and generally use this day to get your brain organized.  Review everything you always forget and make sure the content is in your head.
 
You need to stop studying at dinner time.  Pack your books away and do something fun and low stress.  Go to a movie.  Go out for (decaf) coffee with a friend.  Go to the gym or go swimming.  Go for a walk or run.  Do yoga.  Cook and enjoy a really good dinner.
 
But do NOT study.  Let your brain fester away and have some time of its own.
 
Go to bed early.  Really early.  To prevent troublesome and restless sleeping, I really highly recommend some physical activity on the evening before the MCAT.  Other things that might work are yoga breathing, and other relaxation techniques.
 
Get up early - you do NOT want to be rushed for time.  Do not rely on only one alarm clock in case the electricity goes out or something.  Maybe have your mom call you and make sure you're up.  However, beware of leaving your cell sound on - your friends will be texting you all night to wish you luck and you don't want to be woken up every time this happens.
 
Eat a good, solid and filling breakfast, high in protein.  Do NOT study on the morning of the test.  You already know the material at this point.
 
Do not panic and do not stress.  You are more prepared for this test now than you will ever be in your life.  Get ready to go in and rock the MCAT.
 
PS. Now that the course is over, feel free to add me on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/claire.dong.75) or Instagram (@claireddd) :) I'd love to see what you guys are up to in the future! 

Happy studying and thanks,
Claire