Subject: Tip of the Day – Write It Down

Hi there,

If you find yourself getting bogged down reading a passage or a long question stem, or working through a really long ochem reaction, there are a few things you can do to keep yourself moving along.

First, if something is confusing, take 10 seconds and jot down a summary of what you read on your scrap paper.  If this takes longer than 10 seconds, you're probably wasting time.  If you can jot down key points quickly, doing so to help with understanding.  Remember that if you're going to use your note board effectively, you need to keep it organized, so be sure to also jot down a quick heading (which passage you're looking at and/or which question).  It is also a good idea to draw a line between your notes for passages/questions, to keep everything organized.

Second, if you're facing a long and confusing question stem, don't be afraid to write a few key words down on your scrap paper.  If this helps you avoid having to re-read the question or if this helps you figure out what the question is asking, it is a good idea.  You can decode these convoluted question stems the same way you decode passages.  Dissect them and pick out the important bits.  The unimportant bits are there to make you waste time (for example, if you spend a lot of time trying to understand irrelevant background information).

Next, I really to want to emphasize that there is use in writing out the products of long ochem reactions and then comparing your answer predications to the 4 options.  If you only do POE and work with what they give you, you'll fall for the traps and tricks.  Writing down products of reactions is not a waste of time.  Most of the time you can do a bit of a reaction and then go back to the answer options.  You'll rarely need to write out an entire reaction.  Also, keep in mind we're not aiming for beauty here, we're aiming for maximal understanding in a short amount of time.  Your structures have to be legible and useful, not a work of art.  If all you're trying to find all possible products of a reaction, get the structures down on your page fast and don't worry about making the reaction perfect and balanced and beautiful.

Finally, keep your pencil moving and keep your mouse moving.  If you find yourself sitting there and staring at the page, make a conscious effort to use your pencil or mouse and keep it moving.  This will keep you moving and help you focus on the important info.

Hope this helps and good luck studying,
Claire

